Facial transplant is a very
new surgical procedure.
It was first done in the US
on a man who lost the central
portion of his face
including his nose, lips,
and underlying bone
after suffering severe burns from an electrified rail.
The entire center portion of the face,
including the skin from cheek to cheek,
and all the underlying bones,
blood vessels, muscles, and nerves
were removed from the donor,
who had died during heart transplant surgery,
and transplanted to the recipient
during a 17 hour procedure.
As more of these surgeries are performed,
they offer new hope to those whose
injuries cannot be repaired
with conventional plastic surgery.